They do 79 meters high.
79 meters high.
And you get 22 levels.
Stories we call it, yeah, 11 stories, yeah.
Sorry for that.
No, no, let's try that.
I'm just doing the translation.
There is no what?
Public activities on the tour.
I see, yes.
The tour is like tower, it means the building, right?
Yes.
The two classrooms of the tour are completely empty.
I'll show you why in a few minutes.
After you've got seven floors of administration, you call the... On all four, seven floors, yes.
Yes, there is always the same organization of each floor.
So seven floors of administration.
From outside, it's the floor that you can see with the mobile office.
Of course, you saw when you were in Thierry's offices.
the shuttles are moving and after you get even flows of
storage booth.
This is from outside, this is the floors without the shutters.
This is longer than a football field.
This room that we're in now.
The entrance room, the reception hall.
I need to show you from outside.
You don't see the way we enter.
Oh, this is magnificent.
This is huge.
It's going to be like a forest at some point.
What do you call it?
The garden?
The garden.
What kinds of trees are those?
Are they fine?
I'm going to explain to you the garden.
For the library, you've got a big esplanade, which is going to be a public place very soon, when all the areas around the library are going to be finished.
We'll have shops around the library, offices, a lot of different activities close to the library.
And also you will have the creation of a big network, communication network.
You will have a new subway, which will be the new subway, which should be ready for June next year.
You will be from the center of Paris in 12 minutes.
12?
Yes.
Excellent.
The name is Meteor Club, so you have seen in Paris the works.
Also, just behind the library, you've got the network of the ROR.
The ROR is a suburban station, which joins the suburban town to Paris.
Just here behind the library, and the rail network is going to be covered by a concrete road.
So from the other side of the library, you will be able to go up of the rail network.
All the rail network is going to be covered.
from the station to the periphery.
It means it's going to be a big road of more than two kilometers.
And you will have a stop of the Royal Metro and the Suburban train, just behind the tower.
So very soon, in one year, you will have two subways and one Suburban station to preserve the library.
It's very difficult to come here.
How many employees here, Frederick?
At the moment, we are around 1,800 people.
We should be 2,500 people.
In all four, to what?
Yes, in this two roles, and also in Summer House, but I'm going to speak about it later.
And in the whole library, we should do it.
Oh, so that will include the issue, too?
Yes.
The whole library will be...
2,500 people.
So when you arrived to the East Planet, you saw that it was discovered by wood.
This is a wood which comes from Amazonia, so it did a lot of polymics because of the deforestation of the Amazonia.
What is the wood again?
In France, it's hippish.
It's a kind of tech.
I don't know the... Yes, it's a kind of... It's not the tech because the tech is protected, but it's a kind of... It takes a lot of weather and weathering and things very strong.
And on each extremity, because perhaps you have seen that the library is half empty, half deep.
Down?
Down.
For the reception level.
So to delimitate the library in the area of Paris, the architect decided to put on each extremity of the library the torres.
And he said that the torres are like open bodies.
So they've got 22 floors, 79 meters high, and you've got two different activities.
The two first floor are empty, but we are going to see why they are empty in a few minutes.
After you've got seven floors of administration with the mobile shutters, and after you've got the floor of storage roof.
Are the books going to be visible through the windows?
No, it was the first idea of the architect to put a window and we wanted that from outside we could see our books years after years, our patrimony.
But there were so many polemics about the fact that the books behind the glass
It's going to be damaged, but you decide to put the shutters.
And then the books will be behind the shutters?
The shutters and the books?
No, you've got the glasses.
It's a very special glass.
You've got a wall for the shutters.
It's in a wood, it's a wood which comes from Africa.
It's a wood we call hukumech.
Hukumech, but I don't know the translation.
Can you write it?
Yes.
Hukumech.
It comes from the Congo.
The jungle?
From Africa.
And that's the wood in the windows.
Yes, but in fact, it's a very thin slice of wood because it's a metal structure.
And on the metal structure, you've got a very thin slice of this wood.
Behind this wood, you've got a wall.
And after, you've got a protection against fire, rock wall, wood wall, rock wall.
um what is it no uh behind you've got a thing to protect the system sprinkler system or yes you've got it but i mean uh the protection between insulation yes insulation because it's rock full okay this is something someone who's speaking after you get the boots they're stored in a in a
And downstairs you have another storage area with a special way to storage.
I'm going to show you if you can go downstairs.
So here you will have half of the storage capacity of the books, and downstairs you will have another storage area.
I'm going to show you when you will be downstairs.
I love this garden.
Did they bring trees?
They must have brought the trees.
The idea of the garden from the architect came from the history of the libraries.
The library comes from the 14th century, and according to the architect, what was
The buildings which were the most representative of the Middle Age construction were the religious construction.
That's why they decided to build a library like a kind of monastery in the central garden and a public activity all around the garden.
Is there a published statement on this, of who the architect is and what his philosophy was?
I'll ask Monsieur Gouillet, maybe he knows, if there is a statement about, a published statement about his philosophy.
Yes, there is a book I'm going to show.
Here you've got a library, and I think they've got a book which explains it.
Oh, maybe they have a book for sale.
Okay, that'll be excellent.
So after you've got two levels in the library, this level is a general level, open to heavy people under 80 years old.
because the level of the books are too high for younger people.
Research people, but open to everybody.
And the books on this level have been good especially for this level.
And downstairs, perhaps in June next year, we are going to open the research level, which will be, in fact, the moving of all the books and periodic course, which are at the moment in the whole library.
They are going to move.
At the end of the summer?
Three million?
Ten million.
Ten million?
Ten million of books are going to move.
All the books since we organized a legal deposit with Francois I, it was in the 60th century, in 1536, we organized a legal deposit.
First law in the cultural realm, and this is the oldest cultural law we've got in France.
And all these books are going to move from the whole one to this new library.
And they will be storage in two areas.
The more often hasps will be storage behind the research level, and the less hasps will be storage in the towers.
And hasps for the books which have never been asked,
There will be storage somewhere else, close to Paris, in Mount Lavallee, just close to Eurodistance.
A where?
The same architect built a special... A warehouse?
Yes.
What was it?
Do you know the name of the architect?
Yes.
Dominique Perrot.
Dominique.
Why don't you spell it easier?
It's...
We'll check.
We'll be sure to check it.
So from outside, you can take what you call a 12-hour tour to go to the library.
You've got one on this way, and you've got another one on the opposite side.
And when you arrive in the library, you will see that it's completely built in a symmetric way of construction.
All the things you can find on this way, you get exactly the same on the other side as the library.
So there's an entrance just like this on the other side?
Yes.
And a restaurant on the other side, too?
No, just on this side, because it's just a restaurant.
We put that here, but we're going to put a new restaurant here.
So here you are in transport.
You've got the catalog of the library, which is available here, and this side on the other side also.
So here you will be able to buy your ticket for one day.
Oh, it's all automated.
It's 20 francs for one day if you buy a ticket for this level.
Otherwise you can buy a card for one year.
So the card you need to subscribe to the welcome desk.
Just close to the welcome desk which are there.
You've got the cashier.
And then you can green the reading rooms.
I will give you tickets if you want to have a look during the day.
That would be nice.
And after you've got the reading rooms which are on this level and on the other way.
I'm going to take a map if you want.
Okay, good.
You've divided the library into five different departments.
You've got literature and art department.
You've got just here downstairs, you can take a leaf which is in the corner.
You've got the law department.
Here you've got the science and technical department.
Here it's audiovisual department.
And on the other side here you've got... So down the reception, you've got the...
philosophy and history departments.
Here you will have all the contents of each department.
Periodicals.
You get reading rooms just for the periodicals, but also you get some periodicals which are available in each room according to the aim of the room.
Sure.
You have 2,000 seats.
That's a lot.
2,000 reading seats, desks for readers.
So here you've got information, all the time you get different information to the readers and for instance here you've got all the rooms are available or not.
What does that mean?
Seats available, seats not available.
Here for the audiovisual screen, they are not available now.
It means that it's full.
So you know immediately before buying a ticket, if you will find a place, a seat in this room.
And all the information of the library.
The air is beautiful coming in.
So for reader, he comes for the first time in the library.
He can meet a librarian, and the librarian is going to explain to him if he can find what he wants in the library.
He can have a look by himself in the catalog, but if he's not really
find the catalog, he can ask to a library.
So the library will be available?
Yes.
So they will tell him if he can't find what he's looking for in this library.
Otherwise, if it could go in another library.
So the machine is backed up by a person?
Yes.
And later, so perhaps in June, we hope in June, when we will have the research show,
You will need to meet a librarian to explain to him the aim of your research, and he will decide if you allow him or not to go to go downstairs.
So if you want to have a look downstairs, I will give you a ticket for the desk level, and you will be able to go to each department.
With one ticket, you can go to all the departments of the library.
We can do that after our interviews.
Also in the library, we've got a cultural...
Cultural activities.
And exhibitions?
Yes, we've got an exhibition room here.
At the moment there is a small exhibition about photographers.
It's free.
Is that open to the general public?
Yes.
And also we've got two auditoriums in the library for conferences and so on.
Here on this side you've got an auditorium, a small auditorium, you've got 200 seats, and on the other side you've got another auditorium of 350 seats.
And here at the moment you've got the library, but the library later is going to be behind, I'm going to show you.
This will be like a shock, in other words, right?
It's a massive door.
This is like out of a movie, isn't it?
You know, at the beginning, I told you that the two first floors of the drawers are empty.
In fact, here you've got the two first floors of the drawers.
They are just here to give the light to these mechanical stairs.
This is the way the researchers will go downstairs.
What is the function of this area?
What will the function be?
It's to receive the researchers.
To receive?
The researchers.
Oh, I see.
Okay.
The researchers come in, and this was all built to gain the natural light, to have the natural light come in.
That was one of the points.
How many escalators?
Like that, like this one?
Yes.
You've got four, one under each tower.
In fact, you've got a tower on each extremity of the reception area, and you've got a door.
We will take the door later, and you take the stairs to go downstairs.
Is that stainless steel?
Yes.
The different materials that Dominique Perrier use are the concrete,
The steel, so you've got a full steel or steel like a jumper?
A mesh.
A wire mesh, yeah.
And because it's very cold material, you also use the wood.
So in the reading rooms you will see it's full of wood.
You've got the wood on the esplanade, so you've got the wood on the shutters.
On the shutters.
And the concrete is going to stay like that.
That's for the glass, it's a very special glass.
which has been created exceptionally for the library, because when you get such a big superficie of glasses, it's a little bit green, and the architect wanted a glass completely clear.
So it's a French company, which is called Saint-Gobain, which created this especially for the library.
Is it also resistive and must be resistive to heat and light?
Yes, I'm going to show you.
In fact, you get a slice of glass after you've got an empty space with air conditioning to involve the conversation.
to resist because when you are on the top of the toga, there's a wind, so it's to resist to the wind.
And after you could steal another slice of... Another?
So it's three?
No, two.
One, an empty space with a hair conditioning, and another... Slap.
Slap.
I'm going to show you.
Oh, okay.
That's it.
In fact, the library was also a laboratory for our development here.
The concrete is in the country.
There is a very special concrete.
So here it's a reception for the auditorium.
And then we also put the restaurant.
But later the restaurant is going to be... So later here you will have the restaurants.
Two levels.
I don't think the library is going to be here.
Like the bookstore, the library.
It's going to be, but at the moment it's still not finished.
That's why you've got this very small restaurant.
and you will have access directly from this planet.
That will be open space.
They'll make a little garden or something.
When you will go in the reading rooms, you will see that from the reception reading rooms, for the reading rooms for the reception, the light comes from the garden.
But the reading rooms for the public reading rooms will see that the light comes from downstairs because
You see the esplanade.
On each side of the esplanade, each extremity, you've got the towers.
And between each towers, you've got a kind of gap, which joins all the towers.
We call that the Garden Street.
And the aim of this gap is to give the light from behind to the reading rooms.
When you go in the reading room, you will see the light.
What did you call it again, the name of it?
The Garden Street.
The Garden Street, okay.
And also there is two functions, in fact.
It gives a light to the reading room, from behind, but also it's an exit fire in case of problems.
You open the drawer and you can take the stairs to be outside.
Boy, the architect had grand vision, didn't he?
The scale is quite amazing.
It is.
It's the future.
Yes, it is.
They're scratching the wood, though.
They should be careful.
For instance, you see the stairs to go to the library?
Yes.
Behind the stairs, there's a road to disturb the libraries.
We drove around in the taxi, as a matter of fact.
I know the taxi.
All the delivery companies and so on come directly and do the tour of the library.
Underground?
Yes.
I'm going to show you to just have a look.
It's not very important.
No, it's interesting.
It's how access is very important.
This is the stairs from outside.
And all around the library, you've got a road to the different areas of the library.
It's like the Pentagon, it really is.
It's really strange.
Also, you know, on this side here, you've got all the future area with the two auditoriums, the big one and the small one.
And the same area on the other side, it's just, we use the same space to build auto-park.
Oh, sure, parking lot.
Parking for the staff.
We've got fully all of the parking for the staff.
And just here on the corner of the library is the part for the visit.
It's still not open, but we need to go, but we will have... We will have a 1,006 place for cars.
They let the bicycles in too.
Yeah, it's very interesting.
rooms, three on each side.
And this is room to receive 50 people.
It's, for instance, for conferences and so on.
Do you know the kind of wood?
It's wood from Africa, also.
It's padouk.
And the floor, too?
Yes.
On the cultural area, it's padouk.
This is all this wood.
It's amazing.
Just had a look to see.
On the other side, you've got a big one with a stage behind.
And in October, we're going to organize concerts and also theater.
So it's going to be a cultural center as much as a library.
It was in the mission of the new library to be a...
to keep the books, to conserve the books, to communicate them better than we do at the moment, and also to be able to show how patrimonial... To have a vehicle for the... Yes, that's why you've got the big exhibition hall.
You've got two different galleries for the exhibition.
and we will have, we're going to have, we have conferences, concerts, and so on.
It's quite a feeling of being in a spaceship sometimes.
Well, it really does bring the Bibliothèque Nationale, it gives it a much greater cultural and public exposure.
Before it was the repository for the books, and now you're reaching out to the citizenry.
I'm sorry, go ahead.
It's true that before it was
Nobody wanted to go in the other one because it was the realm of the culture and everybody thinks it was not our place to go in the other library.
The aim of this one is to open the culture to a large public.
And the new president we've got, Jean-Pierre Angremy, wants to do of the library a very important cultural area of Paris, of France also, but he wants to be more, to concurrence, concurrence, yes?
Yeah.
The public library has a lot of activities, a lot of exhibitions, a lot of curriculum.
The showplace of the culture.
It is, yeah.
It's a patrimony that you're using.
Sortez.
Beautiful.
How many of these exhibition rooms do you have?
Two?
Two.
The small one and the big one.
Two hundred.
And also we've got the exhibition room in the whole library.
Two big galleries, which are really beautiful.
Galerie Mansart and Galerie Nazarene in the whole library.
So here, for instance, at the opening of this library in December, we use two galleries here to organize a big exhibition.
And at the moment, we've got us an exhibition in one gallery.
The craftsmanship is wonderful everywhere you look, the work that they put into it.
I see they don't allow smoking.
We don't smoke, but I heard they don't allow smoking in here.
No, it's not allowed.
In fact, we are not going to open the researcher area before finishing the computer system of the library, because the idea that when you will come to the library, you will not be allowed to go downstairs.
we had an interview before, that when you will have your car, before coming, you need to reserve, you know, to book your place.
It will be the best way to manage the organization of the library.
And you will also be able to book your books before coming to the library.
I see.
The books do have to be brought from the four towers to the reading area, right?
I'm going to show you the way you are going to use it.
Very interested in that, yeah.
So, if he comes for the first time, he will meet someone just here on the corner.
He'll get a librarian or... And they will decide if he can have a discard or not.
If he has already his card, here, everywhere in the library, you will have a small computer system.
You will just have to put your card in the reader.
And he's going to identify yourself.
You can reserve your seat for today or for two, five, six months later.
So you will be able to choose the kind of seat you want.
If you want a simple seat, a seat to read the peyotey coils, a seat to read the microfiche, microfilm, and so on.
You will also be able to decide if you want to book your books.
You will have the catalog, which will be on the screen.
And you will be able to reserve your books.
Which means that the day, if you can... The day for the... I mean, one day for one day.
If it's full, you're not able to come, but if you come one day, perhaps you'll be able to reserve for the future, and you will be sure to have your books because you work there.
And you'll do that all in advance.
You could do that all in advance.
Yes.
And also, which is important, we should be in the internet network, so it means that from home you will be able to reserve your book.
So, when you've got your books, when you've got your cap, you go directly to the researcher's area.
So you've got four entrants, one on this side and another on the other side.
And also, on the other reception area, you've got the same... Amazing, true.
I mean, here's the book I'm looking for.
Yeah, in the jacket, I could just explain his concept of the... Oh, is that the one you want?
Yeah.
I hope I don't mind.
I might talk about it.
It's the best one.
This one here?
Yes.
Do they have one in the English language?
It's written in French and English.
Oh, excellent.
Terrific.
Good.
And also, from just outside on this corner, behind the tower, we've got the information center about the new area around the library, if you want to have a look later.
Okay.
So here you're going to have a gate.
You just have to put your card.
It's the first setting, in fact, to check if you reserve.
You put your card here.
If you've got your card, you can go downstairs.
Separate the public readers from the scholars?
Yes.
But I mean in terms of the reading areas, too.
There's no public.
OK.
Here, for disabled people, you've got the lift.
Otherwise, you take the stairs.
28 meters.
The architect explained that it's an homage to the cathedral.
This is an homage to the cathedral.
It's so high.
Yes.
It's like a vaulted area.
My God.
And you can speak through them.
Is that how it remained like that?
That mesh.
We got all the air conditioning system, yeah.
Were we down there before?
We were on that side over there, I think, right?
That's where we were before, yes.
The architecture that the Pont-le-Vie, you know, in the castle?
It's called the Pont-le-Vie.
Pont-le-Vie, you know, the castle, you've got water all around the castle.
A moat, they call it a moat, yes.
Yeah, yeah, this is excellent.
It's excellent.
How high is this for me?
It's 28 meters.
Wow!
It's very interesting to find, because I've never seen anything like this before.
You see, you've got the impression that it's not finished.
Yes, he phrased it.
I thought he might have to do the texture.
Interesting, because it's the edges.
Do you see how we unravel the edges?
It's really spectacular.
It's part of the design.
He said once, I listened in, and I was explaining to someone that this woman still don't know... Rael.
Yes, yes.
That's what it looks like, exactly.
So here, you have a gate to check if you book your seat, because you cannot go in the library if you don't have a seat.
So here you have to check that.
Otherwise, you will have people who will be there, and they will do the reservation for yourself.
Otherwise, you will be able to do it by yourself.
Here you will put your new card, and then you will go.
If you're pre-registered, you'll come here, if you want to be able to help you.
You can be completely autonomous.
I don't need it.
Yes.
Otherwise, you will always find someone to help you in your research.
It's nice to know.
Even getting the books will be totally automated.
And in advance.
Yeah.
Automated access.
What you will see when you will be in the first floor of the general reading rooms, in the general reading rooms, you can't go outside the reading rooms with your books.
And it's a little bit of a problem because, for instance, it's really difficult for someone upstairs.
When you are in the philosophy department, for instance, if you do research in psychiatry, you have to go in the philosophy and sociology department.
But if you want to do research in the psychiatry, but in the medical realm of psychiatry, you have to go in the science and technical departments.
And the problem is that
you can't go with your books from one department to the other one, from the first floor.
So it's a little bit embarrassing for the readers.
And here, you've got five departments downstairs, the same department than upstairs, but you can move from one department to another one.
Oh, you can?
Yes, it will be possible, because the checking from outside is not there.
But as soon as you've got a book,
If you don't give back your book to the librarian, you will not be able to go out.
Oh, so they're going to make sure you give the book back.
Oh, that's on the computer.
You will be able to go all around the library for the research level, but you will not be able to go outside without churning in your book.
So these people can move from one to another, but not these two.
Here you are in the general level, upstairs.
So here, if you are in one department, you can go outside to another department.
But downstairs, it will be a little bit the same structure.
You will be able to go in the corridor and to go from one side to the other side.
And it's from outside here that you...
That's right, plus you have to turn the book in.
Your card won't let you... The which level?
Researcher's... Oh yes, and here are the reading rooms.
And you've got the reading rooms.
Oh, these are beautiful.
And you see all the land?
Holy mackerel!
In the whole one, at the moment, we've got 600 seats.
And here we're going to have more than 2,000 seats.
So it will be easier to come here because you will have... And you see you can put your computer in here, I think?
Yes.
And also I'm going to show you because when you will order a book, if you order it before coming to the library, in the morning you will just have to go to the check, to the offices, to show you.
And you give your name and your book will be stored in a rack and you will have it.
If you ask for a book during the day, you ask to the library, and you give your car, so they can identify you on which seat you are.
And when the books will be ready, you will have a light here, which means your book is there.
Look at these.
These are beautiful.
Yes, you know, in France, every time you build a public building, there is 1% of the budget of the construction, which is devoted to artistic... 1%?
1% of the cost of the construction.
So you will see, fine, I haven't... So you... On the Est, or where we went, Est Reception, you've got a... I don't know if it's a frame, but a tapestry?
Tapestry.
From Hohenstein?
On the other one, on the west, you've got a sculpture of Ries Bourgeois.
And here on each wall of the research building rooms, you've got a painting.
That's beautiful.
This is probably all going to be in that book, too, right?
I would imagine.
Not all of it.
Yes, of course.
This is the architect who designed also the furniture.
wow what's it like what you don't know what kind of wood this is though again oh it's beautiful it's got us it's an african wood also but look at the back how it moves yes and you've got a small thing to leave on the noise yeah there's a little piece of leather in the general reading room this is the same furniture the same
Thank you.
Is that a light?
Yes.
Oh, look at the light.
The idea is that it never gives... Reflection, glare?
It never holds... Heat.
Yes.
Oh, it's cool.
It's a cool light.
Oh my, yeah.
It's a fiber optic.
Oh, so it's cool.
Beautiful chairs.
And they're quiet chairs.
And there's that male again.
You've got a height of 13-meter height.
This is an homage to the main reading rooms in the whole library.
The main reading room, which is called La Salle La Brousse, has the same height.
That's why the architect decided to build the library to give this height.
The hair finishing comes directly from the floor.
It's very high because when you are sitting, you should not feel the air conditioning.
The cold.
The cold, yes.
And because you've got 30 meter high, you use this high with four levels behind the reading rooms.
And on this level, you've got the storage area, half of the capacity of storage of the libraries.
That's behind?
Yes.
Do things go up, actually?
Do you know how long the length of this project?
It's enormous.
I know that the length of the garden is 180 meters, and here you've got 180 meters.
Oh, this is enormous.
This does give you the impression of a knight, lances or armor on them, the three, and also a church, a cathedral.
There's a condolence.
Yes, it does, isn't it?
See, with the air conditioning, you'll never feel the breeze.
It's just the cool air.
So you can come from the corridor.
And the light comes from the gardens.
And all the seats are reserved, too.
You can't just come and take a seat.
No, in fact, you will have 80% of the seats that you can reserve.
And the other one is a seat for people who come.
without the ring that you need to choose there.
And if I monitor all the people that can be with.
Yep.
That's right.
Look at this.
Yes.
So here you get the information there.
So here you will have a library and we are going to help you to do research if you don't want to do the research by yourself.
Otherwise, on this side here you will have computer to read the catalog.
And this will open next.
We hope to open it in June.
And here you will feel where your books will be ready in the morning.
I love this.
This is unbelievable.
So here you will have books in free access.
Around 300,000 books in free access.
And also, you will have the 11.10 or 11, you don't know exactly how many books you've got, of books from the old library, when you storage here, on the tours.
And when you will ask for a book, it will take approximately 30 minutes to be delivered.
At the moment, you have to wait for a schoolhouse or freehouse to have it.
And here, it should be 30 minutes.
Because we've got a special network of delivery,
When you ask for a book, all the things are on the computer system.
So the order is given to the guy in the storage area.
You receive the order.
You just have to take the books from the shelves, the stacks.
Then you put them in a kind of truck.
And you get a real network of seven kilometers all around between the towers and the area.
And they try to do the tour of the library to come behind the reading rooms.
Can we see some of that?
Something like that?
Sure.
And then after we put the ghost here, and when you come to see the librarian, you just have to take your books out.
So we did an interface between the readers and the delivery station, which means that
The guy just have to read the code down of the roof.
He put it in the truck from the storage area and between the interface, the truck knows immediately where it has to go.
On a little track track.
But it knows where to go from the device.
What's going to help it tell away the people?
The guy who takes the book doesn't know where he has to send the book.
He doesn't know.
He won't know.
You just have to take the book.
He reads the barcode of the book.
He keeps it in the trash.
He presses the button and there's the book.
So the computer tells it where to go.
So that's one reason why you can't get another book.
from another specialty?
No.
If it can arrive, it's because you did it on purpose.
But if you do, you will find a rock as it has to be.
We already tried it in, you know, the municipal city library of Bordeaux?
They already tried this system.
Oh, they did?
Yes.
And here, so you've got the storage area.
So this is where the books will come down from?
Yes.
I wonder how the truck goes from upside down.
It changes 180 degrees.
I wonder if it's a bus.
The same technique for the mail, for the mail.
I see, okay.
Perhaps you will have a look when we will go back upstairs.
Okay.
So you can get the storage area all around the mail.
You see the truck there?
The blue things here, the trucks.
Oh, those are the trucks.
Do you see them?
I don't.
Where is it?
The blue things from the ceiling.
the blue thing you've got a special you can have a look i'm not i don't see it i see now yes i see yes i see oh i saw that's that's fine and they just they're not they're not loose they're not loose inside in other words they're probably secure inside the truck and inside you've got a kind of thing where you can put around five or six books and it's mobile which means that
When the truck goes on this side... That's what I was wondering, yeah.
...it turns, and the books are never made against the truck.
Well, also, they stay upright.
It's like a gyroscope.
Look at that!
That's great!
This is the structure.
Yeah.
And here you put the books.
Let's see.
I don't think there's something inside.
So you put the books here.
So the books will remain stationary, yeah.
A little parchment, separated by a leather.
You call these fucks?
No, we call it... I don't know.
What's the French word?
Transport, automatic, and documents.
Automatic transport of documents.
Tellerless?
Teledoc, the company... Teledoc, Telolift, it's called Telolift.
It's a company, it's a German company, I think.
Teledoc.
You know, it was a company which creates a pneumatic system to send... Oh, yes, yes, yes.
I know what you mean.
Now they change a little bit.
This is... I didn't quite expect to see that.
The shape is very interesting.
So as in what we used to... We used to use it for the male between all the twirls to...
to send the mail to the department.
Teladoc, Telelift.
Okay, that's great.
I can't read it from here.
The company, T-H-Y-S-S-E-N.
This is the wall to separate library from the other side.
You know, for instance, on this side behind, you've got the river.
So that's why at the beginning of the library, the first thing was to create a big wall through the library with more than one kilometer of superficie.
And it does 28 meters high.
So at the beginning of the library, you've got an impression of a big swimming pool because you've got the wall all around the library.
It was empty in the middle.
For protection?
Yes, for protection.
But it's not completely, it's what we call a perspirant.
You're going to have the infiltration of the watcher.
Otherwise, if it's completely resistant, it just moves.
So that's why it's supposed to do perspirant.
This is going to be something to see when it's running.
It will be very interesting.
And all four... Oh, here's one, sure.
They're quiet.
Oh, they're very quiet.
Wow.
All four tours will come to this area?
So all the four towers will deliver?
Yes.
Yes, it's all in this rock between all the... You've got seven kilometers of this rock now.
It's quiet though, Connie.
Oh, everybody has problems with that.
So this is under the... What level are we on now?
We are on the lowest level of the library.
I see.
We are around 8 meters under the river level.
Under the river level?
Yes.
8 meters under the river level.
And the river is just right over there.
Yes.
But everything is in the country.
Oh, I'm not worried about it.
You said it's semi-permeable, so if water comes in, is it
channeled out?
There is a lot of, I don't know exactly, but there is a big structure to pump the water.
For instance, the garden has, because the garden is under the river level, we can imagine that the water comes from under the garden.
Because we build the wall,
but not a concrete wall on the floor because of the garden.
So in the garden, in the water from the garden, you've got a pump in the garden to take the water off.
Naturally it would come in like a well.
I didn't realize it was under the river level.
I don't believe the...
Yeah, it's very ultra-modern.
So these are books in here.
It's a small structure because there is fire in one room, which will be protected from the other room.
That's right.
They're called comcarcus.
And you have the whole room.
And here you can see the wall of the earth.
That's spectacular.
Excusez-moi.
The physical building of the library but also you've got the intellectual building.
Of course.
I mean, we did all the inventory of all the books of the library.
to create a new catalogue.
So it takes a lot of time to do the inventory.
We have to put the notice on the computer system and so on.
And also we're going to organise what we call in France the poll associates, the associated poll.
It means that we're looking for the
You know, we've got all the French books because of the law, because of the legal deposits, but there is some libraries in France which are specialized in one realm, and they book foreigners' books and so on.
They have subscriptions with foreigners' newspapers and so on.
So we don't want to do the concurrence of these libraries because we are public libraries.
So the idea is to be associated with these libraries,
And we're going to give a part of our acquisition budget to this library to help them to be developed in their realm.
And also, they need to scan the library and their books to allow this one to be able to read what they've got.
To access it.
Yes.
to have the best communication between the libraries.
That's very interesting.
There'll be a network.
Yes.
Everyone in return will get a budget to help.
That's what you call it.
Frederick, what is your title, your position?
At the moment, I've got a lot of positions.
I was a guide in the library when I began.
No, I'm responsible of all the team of the welcome of the library.
I see.
And in September, I'm going to work with Thierry.
Oh, yes.
For the cultural programmation.
Because, you know, a lot of people moved because it was a creation of the library.
But now there's going to be stability.
Behind here, you will have
the audiovisual department and you will have a lot of things to see with small rooms to have a projection of movies.
So you can have actual little rooms and things like that?
Yes, small little projection rooms.
The maps, the cards, the coins will stay in the old libraries and we are going to
to create a new area which should move the library of the Nudejulu to the whole library, and it will become the international art.
The same company makes the escalators that makes the tele-lift.
I don't know.
Oh, sorry, downstairs, yeah.
This is made in Germany, this stuff, yeah.
Hey, it's metal.
It's like wire.
Thank you.